[MTA 8.0] [WIP] MTA 8.0.0 Release Notes (#176)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/ref_known-issues-8-0.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-09-09
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="known-issues-8-0_{context}"]
= Known issues

{ProductFullName} version {ProductVersion} is affected by the following newly identified and previously known issues. A known issue is listed in all future release notes until resolved, at which point it is published as a fixed issue.

.An analysis might fail after MTA CLI is upgraded without a cleanup

An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail after you perform the following actions:

. Run the analysis on the current {ProductShortName} CLI version.
. Upgrade to and deploy the newer {ProductShortName} CLI version.
. Run the analysis on the newly deployed {ProductShortName} CLI version.

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command. 

> . Clear the Maven cache.

Author: ```suggestion
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])
```

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-09-09
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="known-issues-8-0_{context}"]
= Known issues

{ProductFullName} version {ProductVersion} is affected by the following newly identified and previously known issues. A known issue is listed in all future release notes until resolved, at which point it is published as a fixed issue.

.An analysis might fail after MTA CLI is upgraded without a cleanup

An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail after you perform the following actions:

. Run the analysis on the current {ProductShortName} CLI version.
. Upgrade to and deploy the newer {ProductShortName} CLI version.
. Run the analysis on the newly deployed {ProductShortName} CLI version.

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command. 
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

> 

Author: ```suggestion

//TBD by Prabha - Kai
//https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6126
```

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-09-09
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="known-issues-8-0_{context}"]
= Known issues

> {ProductFullName} version {ProductVersion} is affected by the following newly identified and previously known issues. A known issue is listed in all future release notes until resolved, at which point it is published as a fixed issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ProductFullName} version 8.0.0 is affected by the following newly identified and previously known issues. A known issue is listed in all future release notes until resolved, at which point it is published as a fixed issue.
```

Will be incorrect when `{ProductVersion} = 8.0.1`

.An analysis might fail after MTA CLI is upgraded without a cleanup

An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail after you perform the following actions:

. Run the analysis on the current {ProductShortName} CLI version.
. Upgrade to and deploy the newer {ProductShortName} CLI version.
. Run the analysis on the newly deployed {ProductShortName} CLI version.

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command. 
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

> //TBD by Prabha - Kai

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change based on the addition or removal of a custom rule 

When you use Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName}, the analysis results do not change based on the inclusion or removal of a custom rule. If you remove a custom rule after the first analysis, subsequent analysis results detect the incident for the custom rule. Conversely, if you add the custom rule after the first analysis, subsequent analysis does not detect the incident based on the custom rule. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6128[MTA-6128]
```

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-09-09
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="known-issues-8-0_{context}"]
= Known issues

{ProductFullName} version 8.0.0 is affected by the following newly identified and previously known issues. A known issue is listed in all future release notes until resolved, at which point it is published as a fixed issue.

.An analysis might fail after MTA CLI is upgraded without a cleanup

> An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail after you perform the following actions:
> 
> . Run the analysis on the current {ProductShortName} CLI version.
> . Upgrade to and deploy the newer {ProductShortName} CLI version.
> . Run the analysis on the newly deployed {ProductShortName} CLI version.
> 
> To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:
> 
> . Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command. 
> . Clear the Maven cache.

Author: ```suggestion
An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail with the following error message:

----
level=error msg="initialize failed" error="context canceled" provider=java
error="invalid header line "An error has occurred. See the log file"
----

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command.
. Clear the Maven cache.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

> .{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change based on the addition or removal of a custom rule 

Reviewer 2: No, it's not been reviewed by the SME.

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-09-09
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="known-issues-8-0_{context}"]
= Known issues

{ProductFullName} version 8.0.0 is affected by the following newly identified and previously known issues. A known issue is listed in all future release notes until resolved, at which point it is published as a fixed issue.

> .Application analysis with {ProductShortName} CLI might fail with the "invalid header line" error

Reviewer: @mpershina - will review this weekend, good enough?

An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail with the following error message:

----
level=error msg="initialize failed" error="context canceled" provider=java
error="invalid header line "An error has occurred. See the log file"
----

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command.
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

> .{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change based on the addition or removal of a custom rule 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change if you add or remove a custom rule 
```
@mpershina Please could you replace the current title with the one here? This was approved after a review by dev and QE.

> When you use Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName}, the analysis results do not change based on the inclusion or removal of a custom rule. If you remove a custom rule after the first analysis, subsequent analysis results detect the incident for the custom rule. Conversely, if you add the custom rule after the first analysis, subsequent analysis does not detect the incident based on the custom rule. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6128[MTA-6128]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName}, the analysis results do not change if you include or remove a custom rule but do not restart the analyzer process. 
Workaround: you must restart the analyzer process by clicking the Start/Stop button after making a configuration change.
link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6128([MTA-6128])](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6128[MTA-6128)
```
@mpershina This description was approved by the dev and QE. Please could you replace the current entry with this one?

.Application analysis with {ProductShortName} CLI might fail with the "invalid header line" error

An application analysis by using the {ProductFullName} command-line interface (CLI) might fail with the following error message:

----
level=error msg="initialize failed" error="context canceled" provider=java
error="invalid header line "An error has occurred. See the log file"
----

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command.
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

.{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change if you add or remove a custom rule 

When you use Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName}, the analysis results do not change if you include or remove a custom rule but do not restart the analyzer process. 

To work around this problem, restart the analyzer process by clicking the Start/Stop button after making a configuration change.

> (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6129[MTA-6129])

Author: @rromannissen, could you please check the description?

```suggestion
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6129[MTA-6129])

.`ANNOTATION` location rules do not match on FQNs

The `ANNOTATION` search location does not properly use Fully Qualified Names (FQNs) to match annotations. This leads to incorrect matches and false positives in analysis issues. For example, a rule that searches for the `javax.enterprise.inject.Produces` pattern might incorrectly match the occurrences of the `javax.ws.rs.Produces` pattern.

No known workaround exists.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195])
```

----

To work around this problem, clean up metadata and cache:

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command.
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

.{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change if you add or remove a custom rule 

When you use Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName}, the analysis results do not change if you include or remove a custom rule but do not restart the analyzer process. 

To work around this problem, restart the analyzer process by clicking the Start/Stop button after making a configuration change.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6129[MTA-6129])

.`ANNOTATION` location rules do not match on FQNs

The `ANNOTATION` search location does not properly use Fully Qualified Names (FQNs) to match annotations. This leads to incorrect matches and false positives in analysis issues. For example, a rule that searches for annotations using the `javax.enterprise.inject.Produces` pattern might incorrectly match the occurrences of the `javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotation in the source code.

No known workaround exists.

> (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195])

Author: ```suggestion
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195])

.Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName} database produces a connection error
The Solution Server throws a connection error because of idle connections after you deploy the server.
To work around this problem, enter the following command to allow the Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName} database to expire idle connections:
`oc -n openshift-mta exec deploy/kai-db – psql -U postgres -d postgres -c "ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_session_timeout = '1min'; ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_in_transaction_session_timeout = '1min';" `

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6204[MTA-6204])
```

Reviewer 2: @mpershina Sorry to bug you again :) Could you change the first sentence if the following sounds better (as in gives a better explanation)?

```suggestion
The Solution Server throws a connection error when concurrent connections increase in a short span of time.
```

Author: No worries, we're in the same boat working on better texts :-D  The suggestion sounds good to me!

. Clear the `.metadata` subdirectory under the directory from which you ran the `mta-cli analyze` command.
. Clear the Maven cache.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6125[MTA-6125])

.{ProductShortName} analysis result does not change if you add or remove a custom rule 

When you use Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName}, the analysis results do not change if you include or remove a custom rule but do not restart the analyzer process. 

To work around this problem, restart the analyzer process by clicking the Start/Stop button after making a configuration change.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6129[MTA-6129])

.`ANNOTATION` location rules do not match on FQNs

The `ANNOTATION` search location does not properly use Fully Qualified Names (FQNs) to match annotations. This leads to incorrect matches and false positives in analysis issues. For example, a rule that searches for annotations using the `javax.enterprise.inject.Produces` pattern might incorrectly match the occurrences of the `javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotation in the source code.

No known workaround exists.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195])

> .Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName} database throws a connection error

Author: @anarnold97, please, double-check this one :-)

The Solution Server throws a connection error when concurrent connections increase in a short span of time.
To work around this problem, enter the following command to allow the Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName} database to expire idle connections:

> `oc -n openshift-mta exec deploy/kai-db – psql -U postgres -d postgres -c "ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_session_timeout = '1min'; ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_in_transaction_session_timeout = '1min';" `

Author: ```suggestion
----
oc -n openshift-mta exec deploy/kai-db – psql -U postgres -d postgres -c "ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_session_timeout = '1min'; ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_in_transaction_session_timeout = '1min';" 
----
```

> `oc -n openshift-mta exec deploy/kai-db – psql -U postgres -d postgres -c "ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_session_timeout = '1min'; ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_in_transaction_session_timeout = '1min';" `

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
----
oc -n openshift-mta exec deploy/kai-db – psql -U postgres -d postgres -c "ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_session_timeout = '1min'; ALTER ROLE kai SET idle_in_transaction_session_timeout = '1min';" 
----
```

Just worrying how this might render

Author: Should render just fine, I added just "----", it does the trick :)

To work around this problem, restart the analyzer process by clicking the Start/Stop button after making a configuration change.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6129[MTA-6129])

.`ANNOTATION` location rules do not match on FQNs

The `ANNOTATION` search location does not properly use Fully Qualified Names (FQNs) to match annotations. This leads to incorrect matches and false positives in analysis issues. For example, a rule that searches for annotations using the `javax.enterprise.inject.Produces` pattern might incorrectly match the occurrences of the `javax.ws.rs.Produces` annotation in the source code.

No known workaround exists.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-6195[MTA-6195])

.Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName} database throws a connection error

The Solution Server throws a connection error when concurrent connections increase in a short span of time.
To work around this problem, enter the following command to allow the Developer Lightspeed for {ProductShortName} database to expire idle connections:

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
----
```
